---
layout: post
title:  I'm joining AI2 and building an AI company
tags:
- startups
- AI
- generative AI
- foundation models
---

I’m incredibly excited to share that I’m joining the [AI2 Incubator](https://ai2incubator.com) at the [Allen Institute for AI](https://allenai.org) to build an AI-first company!

Building an AI company has long been a goal of mine, and there’s never been a better time.

# My AI origin story

I fell in love with AI in 2008 when my then-mentor and soon-to-be Ph.D. advisor, [Robert Hecht-Nielsen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Hecht-Nielsen), gave me a copy of his [new book on AI](https://ece.ucsd.edu/faculty-research/books-by-faculty/confabulation-theory-mechanism-of-thought). I read it and thought to myself, AI is going to change the world and I’m going to build an AI company to make a positive impact.

In 2011 I took a leave of absence from grad school to start an AI company. “AI is dead and decades away from being useful,” investors told us as we tried unsuccessfully to raise capital. We were still in the last AI “winter” and few saw the potential.

In 2014, I joined another AI startup as a founding engineer. The technology was still too early to be useful, so it went the way of most startups.

After finishing my Ph.D. in 2015 I decided to focus on something with less technology risk and co-founded Groundwork. Six years later, after learning many invaluable lessons from the trenches of building a startup, we were successfully [acquired](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/snap-mobile-inc-acquires-sports-140000538.html).

Over the last few years I’ve watched from the sidelines as the technology has made multiple breakthroughs and felt the gravitational pull back to my passion.

# Why start now?

I wasn’t sure I’d start another company so soon after exiting Groundwork. Startups are hard and the odds are against you. I knew that when I started my next venture, I would want the deck stacked in my favor.

Three things compelled me to start now:
1. Recent advances in AI will enable trillions of dollars of value creation
2. AI2 provides an unfair advantage
3. The economy is shaky which makes it a great time to start a company

# Recent advances in AI

AI has a long history of hype, so much so that we’ve had two AI “winters” in the past 60 years. Even in the last decade, AI has been overhyped. 

But this time is different. Really.

In a word, the AI of today is more general. We used to have a single, painstakingly trained algorithm that could do one narrow-task, often at superhuman performance or scale (e.g. credit card fraud detection). Today, we have single models that can do hundreds or thousands of tasks. These breakthroughs are thanks to an enormous amount of data and compute available, advances in AI models (i.e. the Transformer) and software infrastructure, and an exponential growth in talent and investment.

These foundation models are enabling striking use cases like writing amazing [marketing copy](https://jasper.ai), [automating complex tasks](https://twitter.com/AdeptAILabs/status/1570144499187453952) and [creating stunning video content](https://runwayml.com/). 

Frankly, it’s still early days and we’re still discovering the capabilities of these models on a daily basis. On top of that, the pace of research progress is blistering. Most researchers can’t keep up with the firehose of advances. What isn’t quite possible today, has a good chance of being possible in 6, 12 or 18 months. 

# The AI2 Incubator

I knew if I started an AI company I would need top-notch talent, access to the best investors and an environment to explore and form a new venture. AI2 provides that in spades.

AI2 is one of the leading AI research organizations in the world. I’ve read their research papers with excitement over the last few years and saw breakthroughs like ELMO, Longformer and UnifiedIO being made.

As an AI entrepreneur, I care about delivering value to customers. This requires a balance between knowing what value we can deliver today to start building a business and what might be possible in the next few years to enable a bigger vision. Having access to the best minds driving the research short-cuts discovery and provides a sneak peak into the future. 

The team behind the incubator are incredibly talented and visionary. They see the potential I see and have crafted a supportive, constructive program to rapidly explore and test ideas and provide a pathway to funding, backed by the best investors: Sequoia, Kleiner Perkins, Madrona, Two Sigma, and on.

It’s the unfair advantage I was looking for.

I’m incredibly excited to start this journey and look forward to sharing more with you.